Kubernetes filter for style (#1682)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/filters/kubernetes.md

| `Cache_Use_Docker_Id` | When enabled, metadata will be fetched from Kubernetes when `docker_id` is changed. | `Off` |
| `Regex_Parser` | Set an alternative Parser to process record tags and extract `pod_name`, `namespace_name`, `container_name`, and `docker_id`. The parser must be registered in a [parsers file](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/blob/master/conf/parsers.conf) (refer to parser `filter-kube-test` as an example). | _none_ |
| `K8S-Logging.Parser` | Allow Kubernetes pods to suggest a pre-defined parser. | `Off` |
| `K8S-Logging.Exclude` | Allow Kubernetes pods to exclude their logs from the log processor. | `Off` |
| `Labels` | Include Kubernetes pod resource labels in the extra metadata. | `On` |
| `Annotations` | Include Kubernetes pod resource annotations in the extra metadata. | `On` |
| `Kube_meta_preload_cache_dir` | If set, Kubernetes metadata can be cached or pre-loaded from files in JSON format in this directory, named `namespace-pod.meta` | _none_ |
| `Dummy_Meta` | If set, use dummy-meta data (for test/dev purposes). | `Off` |
| `DNS_Retries` | DNS lookup retries N times until the network start working. | `6` |

> | `DNS_Wait_Time` | DNS lookup interval between network status checks. | `30` |

Author: it probably is, but I'd have to dig to confirm so that's for next round.

    Time_Keep    On
```

For Fluent Bit v1.2 or greater, don't use decoders (`Decode_Field_As`) if you are using Elasticsearch database in the output to avoid data type conflicts.

To perform processing of the `log` key, you must enable the `Merge_Log` configuration property in this filter, then the following processing order will be done:

- If a pod suggests a parser, the filter will use that parser to process the content of `log`.

> - If the `Merge_Parser` options was set and the pod didn't suggest a parser, process the `log` content using the suggested parser in the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `Merge_Parser` option was set and the pod didn't suggest a parser, process the `log` content using the suggested parser in the configuration.
```

    image: edsiper/apache_logs
```

The annotation value is boolean which can take a `"true"` or `"false"`.

## Kubernetes owner references

An optional feature of Fluent Bit Kubernetes filter includes owner references information under `kubernetes.ownerReferences` field in the record when enabled.

For example:

```text
"kubernetes"=>{"pod_name"=>"fluentbit-gke-2p6b5", "namespace_name"=>"kube-system", "pod_id"=>"c759a5f5-xxxx-xxxx-9117-8a1dc0b1f907", "labels"=>{"component"=>"xxxx", "controller-revision-hash"=>"77665fff9", "k8s-app"=>"fluentbit-xxxx"}, "ownerReferences"=>[{"apiVersion"=>"apps/v1", "kind"=>"DaemonSet", "name"=>"fluentbit-gke", "uid"=>"1a12c3e2-d6c4-4a8a-b877-dd3c857d1aea", "controller"=>true, "blockOwnerDeletion"=>true}], "host"=>"xxx-2a9c049c-qgw3", "pod_ip"=>"10.128.0.111", "container_name"=>"fluentbit", "docker_id"=>"2accxxx", "container_hash"=>"xxxx", "container_image"=>"sha256:5163dxxxxea2"}
```

> ## Workflow of tail and Kubernetes filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Workflow of Tail and Kubernetes filter
```
I think it makes sense to keep Tail capitalized here since it's the name of a filter

Reviewer: and it looks like it's still capitalized elsewhere

apache-logs-annotated_default_apache-aeeccc7a9f00f6e4e066aeff0434cf80621215071f1b20a51e8340aa7c35eac6.log
```

The transformation doesn't modify the original tag, it creates a new representation for the filter to perform metadata lookup.

The new value is used by the filter to lookup the pod name and namespace, for that purpose it uses an internal regular expression:

```text

> (?<pod_name>[a-z0-9](?:[-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?(?:.[a-z0-9]([-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?)*)_(?<namespace_name>[^_]+)_(?<container_name>.+)-(?<docker_id>[a-z0-9]{64}).log$

Author: ```suggestion
(?<pod_name>[a-z0-9](?:[-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?(?:\.[a-z0-9]([-a-z0-9]*[a-z0-9])?)*)_(?<namespace_name>[^_]+)_(?<container_name>.+)-(?<docker_id>[a-z0-9]{64})\.log$
```

Accidentally removed those, I thought I didn't.

```

For more details, review the source code of that definition [here](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/blob/master/plugins/filter_kubernetes/kube_regex.h#L26>).

You can see on the [Rublar.com](https://rubular.com/r/HZz3tYAahj6JCd) website how this operation is performed. See the following demo link:

[https://rubular.com/r/HZz3tYAahj6JCd](https://rubular.com/r/HZz3tYAahj6JCd)

### Custom regular expressions

Under some uncommon conditions, a user might want to alter that hard-coded regular expression. Use the `Regex_Parser` option.

#### Custom tags For enhanced filtering

> One such use case involves splitting logs by namespace, pods, containers or container id. The tag is restructured within the tail input using match groups. Restructuring can simplify the filtering by those match groups later in the pipeline. Since the tag no longer follows the original filename, a custom `Regex_Parser` that matches the new tag structure is required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One such use case involves splitting logs by namespace, pods, containers or container ID. The tag is restructured within the tail input using match groups. Restructuring can simplify the filtering by those match groups later in the pipeline. Since the tag no longer follows the original filename, a custom `Regex_Parser` that matches the new tag structure is required:
```

            name: fluentbit-config
```

Set `hostNetwork` to `true` and `dnsPolicy` to `ClusterFirstWithHostNet` so the Fluent Bit DaemonSet can call Kubelet locally. Otherwise it can't resolve DNS for kubelet.

### Verify the `Use_Kubelet` option is working

To know if Fluent Bit is using the kubelet, you can review Fluent Bit logs. There should be a log like this:

```text
[ info] [filter:kubernetes:kubernetes.0] testing connectivity with Kubelet...
```

> If you are in debug mode, you could see more:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are in debug mode, you can see more:
```

## Troubleshooting

The following section goes over specific log messages you might receive. Learn how to solve them to ensure that the Fluent Bit Kubernetes filter is operating properly

- You can't see metadata appended to your pods or other Kubernetes objects

  If you aren't seeing metadata added to your Kubernetes logs and see the following in your log message, then you might be facing connectivity issues with the Kubernetes API server.

  ```text
  [2020/10/15 03:48:57] [ info] [filter_kube] testing connectivity with API server...
  [2020/10/15 03:48:57] [error] [filter_kube] upstream connection error
  [2020/10/15 03:48:57] [ warn] [filter_kube] could not get meta for POD
  ```

>   - Potential fix #1: Check Kubernetes roles

Reviewer 2: NB: Avoid `#`, which is unnecessary here and can be problematic in Markdown

```suggestion
  - Potential fix 1: Check Kubernetes roles
```

Author: ugh I thought i removed those

    When Fluent Bit is deployed as a DaemonSet it generally runs with specific roles that allow the application to talk to the Kubernetes API server. If you are deployed in a more restricted environment ensure that all the Kubernetes roles are set correctly.

>     You can test this by running the following command (replace `fluentbit-system` with the namespace where your Fluent Bit is installed)

Reviewer 2: NB: Sentences end in periods

```suggestion
    You can test this by running the following command. Replace `fluentbit-system` with the namespace where your Fluent Bit is installed.
```

    ```text
    kubectl auth can-i list pods --as=system:serviceaccount:fluentbit-system:fluentbit
    ```

    If set roles are configured correctly, it should respond with `yes`.

    For instance, using Azure AKS, running the previous command might respond with:

    ```text
    no - Azure does not have opinion for this user.
    ```

>     If you have connectivity to the API server, but still `could not get meta for POD` - debug logging might give you a message with `Azure does not have opinion for this user`. Then the following `subject` might need to be included in the `fluentbit` `ClusterRoleBinding`:

Reviewer 2: NB: Phrasing

```suggestion
    If you can connect to the API server but still `could not get meta for POD`, debug logging might produce a message suggesting that `Azure does not have opinion for this user`. The following `subject` might then need to be included in the `fluentbit` `ClusterRoleBinding`:
```

    appended to `subjects` array:

    ```yaml
    - apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
      kind: Group
      name: system:serviceaccounts
    ```

>   - Potential fix #2: Check Kubernetes IPv6

Reviewer 2: NB: Avoid `#`, which is unnecessary here and can be problematic in Markdown

```suggestion
  - Potential fix 2: Check Kubernetes IPv6
```

    There might be cases where you have IPv6 on in the environment and you need to enable this within Fluent Bit. Under the service tag set the following option `ipv6` to `on` .

  - Potential fix #3: Check connectivity to `Kube_URL`

>     By default the Kube_URL is set to `https://kubernetes.default.svc:443`. Ensure that you have connectivity to this endpoint from within the cluster and that there are no special permission interfering with the connection.

Reviewer 2: NB: Consistent formatting of `Kube_URL`, fix plurality

```suggestion
    By default the `Kube_URL` is set to `https://kubernetes.default.svc:443`. Ensure that you have connectivity to this endpoint from within the cluster and that there are no special permissions interfering with the connection.
```

> - You  can't see new objects getting metadata

Reviewer 2: NB: Remove extraneous space

```suggestion
- You can't see new objects getting metadata
```

>   In some cases, you might only see some objects being appended with metadata while other objects aren't enriched. This can occur at times when local data is cached and doesn't contain the correct id for the Kubernetes object that requires enrichment. For most Kubernetes objects the Kubernetes API server is updated which will then be reflected in Fluent Bit logs. In some cases for `Pod` objects this refresh to the Kubernetes API server can be skipped, causing metadata to be skipped.

Reviewer 2: NB: Phrasing, capitalize ID

```suggestion
  In some cases, you might see only some objects being appended with metadata while other objects aren't enriched. This can occur when local data is cached and doesn't contain the correct ID for the Kubernetes object that requires enrichment. For most Kubernetes objects the Kubernetes API server is updated, which will then be reflected in Fluent Bit logs. In some cases for `Pod` objects, this refresh to the Kubernetes API server can be skipped, causing metadata to be skipped.
```
